[MUSIC PLAYING]
The search for UFOs
usually has us looking out
into the depths of space.
But what if we flipped it around
and looked towards the Earth
from space?
Can we find UFOs from above?
This is "Gaia News."
Searching for UFOs by pointing
satellites at the Earth--
that's the idea in Harvard
professor Avi Loeb's latest
article for "The Hill."
Professor Loeb, also the author
of "Extraterrestrial: The First
Sign of Intelligent
Life Beyond Earth"
and founder of the
Galileo Project, explains.
AVI LOEB: We are planning
to use satellite data
and potentially look at
the unidentified objects
from above.
And of course the
advantage of that,
we can cover the entire
Earth, whereas if we
put the telescopes
on the ground,
we need to put a lot of
them to cover the same area.
And the goal is to establish
the reality of objects, first
of all, from both directions--
from above using satellite
data, and from below
using telescope systems.
And one would guide the other.
So if we see
regions of activity,
we can put our
telescope systems there.
And if our telescope system
sees something of interest,
we can monitor what that thing
does from satellite data.
So I think it's an extremely
powerful method of verifying
and guiding the
inquiry into the nature
of unidentified
aerial phenomena.
NARRATOR: Founded in
the summer of 2021,
the goal of the
Galileo Project is
to bring the search for
extraterrestrial technology
signatures into the mainstream.
What is the next step
when we find something?
LOEB: The Galileo
Project has two branches.
One is to figure out the nature
of any object near Earth.
And we plan to
pursue that by using
ground-based telescopes
that we build,
but also satellite data from
Planet Labs, for example.
And the second branch
of the Galileo Project
is to search for objects that
appear weird, like 'Oumuamua,
that do not look like a comet
or an asteroid that entered
the solar system from outside.
And then the Vera
Rubin Observatory
will search for such
objects within a year.
And we plan to design
a space mission
to bring a camera close to
an object like 'Oumuamua
and take a high
resolution image of it.
Because they say a picture
is worth a thousand words
NARRATOR: Professor
Loeb pointed out
in his book,
"Extraterrestrial," that if we
had a system in place
when 'Oumuamua soared
through our solar
system in 2017,
we would have photos
of the object.
Now with this plan, we'll be
ready for the next 'Oumuamua.
But how will humanity react?
LOEB: We have no
protocol as to how
to respond to an object
that is so close to us.
All the past protocols
were designed
for a signal that comes from
a distant star very far away
and we would have plenty
of time to think how
to respond to such a signal.
But if there is an
object next door,
the question is,
what is its intent?
What kind of information
is it gathering?
Who would represent humanity?
And what should we do about it?
And these are questions to
which we don't have answers,
and they will have major
societal implications.
So as part of the
Galileo Project,
we are pondering
on these questions.
We don't have answers as of yet.
NARRATOR: The Galileo Project is
building their first telescope
system on the roof of the
Harvard College Observatory.
It will take some time
and lots of funding
to realize their
vision of hundreds
of telescopes around the world.
But they hope to
find some data soon.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]